Added Tutorials to Docs (#7095)
scalableminds/webknossos: docs/tutorial_volume_annotation.md

# Tutorial: Volume Annotation with WEBKNOSSOS

In this tutorial, we will explore the volume annotation features of WEBKNOSSOS. We will cover everything from opening and annotating a published dataset to utilizing both basic and advanced annotation tools. Additionally, I will explain a few things about meshes and provide insights into the layer system of WEBKNOSSOS. Let’s get started!

<!--
Here is full tutorial video, alternatively continue reading below.

> ![type:video Tutorial: Volume Annotation with WEBKNOSSOS](TODO add YouTube link) -->

Reviewer: Is this still a TODO?

Author: Yes, the video has not been release on YouTube et. should come in a week or two

If you already have an account, go to the “featured publications” page. Alternatively, sign up for free in less than a minute on [https://webknossos.org](https://webknossos.org).

Select a dataset from the list of publications to start annotating a demo dataset. You can also open one of your own datasets (if you want to learn how to upload a dataset to WEBKNOSSOS, watch our tutorial on how to upload your own data).

## Creating an Annotation

Click on “create annotation” to begin. Navigate through the dataset and zoom in to find the cell you want to annotate.

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/01_create_annotation.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

Select the brush tool to create your first volume annotation. Brush over a segment. Use the eraser tool to correct mistakes.

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/02_brushing_and_erasing.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

Create a new segment by selecting a new segment ID. Use the trace tool to draw more precise contours.

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/03_new_segments_lasso.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

> ## Smart Annotation Tools

Reviewer: I think this section was changed quite a bit by Albane in the original Medium post. The changes are not reflected here yet - not sure whether you want to do that

Author: Thanks for the heads up. She just released these changes today. I uploaded the new videos as well

Now, let’s explore the smart tools of WEBKNOSSOS. Choose the quick-select tool and draw a rectangle around the cell you want to segment. Scroll to the next slice and repeat.

> Annotating a nucleus with the quick-select tool.

Reviewer: This line looks like it used to be a caption?

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/05_interpolating.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

## 3D Meshes

Right-click on your freshly annotated segment and click on “compute mesh”. Hide the planes in the 3D viewport to fully enjoy your 3D mesh.

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/06_computing_mesh.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

To have a look at even more impressive meshes, go to the featured publication and choose a dataset with an existing mesh file. Right-click on a segment and choose “load mesh”. Maximize the 3D viewport and enjoy the view!

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/07_mesh_PB.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

## Layer System

WEBKNOSSOS works with a layer system, similar to Photoshop. You will usually have the “raw data” layer at the top, as well as optional additional color layers. You can change the opacity of the layers and use the histograms to adjust the contrast of your data.

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/08_layer_system_01.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

> Turning on a color layer, changing the opacity, and adjusting the contrast with the histogram.

Reviewer: This also looks like a caption.

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/03_new_segments_lasso.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

## Smart Annotation Tools
Now, let’s explore the smart tools of WEBKNOSSOS. Choose the quick-select tool and turn on the AI option. Draw a rectangle around the cell you want to segment. Create and annotate new segments by pressing the keyboard shortcut “C”.

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/04_new_AI_quick_select.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

Quick tip: When dealing with long and complex shapes, try drawing multiple rectangles on different areas. The annotations will merge and your complex shape will be segmented in no time.

![type:video](https://static.webknossos.org/assets/docs/tutorial-volume-annotation/04_new_tip_long_cell.mp4){: autoplay loop muted}

> Now, annotate a new segment. Click the “interpolation” tool and congratulations! WEBKNOSSOS just segmented each slice in between the two and saved you time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, annotate a segment on a new slice. Skip a few sections forward and annotate again. To interpolate the two sections, click the “interpolation” tool. All the slices in between the two original ones have now been automatically annotated by WEBKNOSSOS.
```

This was changed today, because the original description was misleading.
